On Sal Nitrum and Miro-At'n'cd Spirat 165

will acquire a quite new nature because of the addition
to it of the aeid salt of the vitriol.

But now to adapt the foregoing to the subject
in hand, it is seen that in quicklime and the water in
which it has been slaked, the contrary salts are of a
nature little suited to combine very closely with each
other, and the proof of this is that either of them
will immediately unite with a salt more suitable for
it.

For first it is manifest that the acid salt ol lime
separates from the fixed salt with which it was united,
that it may be more firmly combined with the salt of
tartar. For if salt of tartar be mixed with water in
which quicklime has been slaked, precipitation takes
place at once and the water becomes turbid and milky.
And the reason is, that although the acid salt ol the
lime is to some extent subdued by its partner the
fixed salt, yet its powers are not so completely
destroyed but that the acid is still able to dissolve a
small portion of limestone, and besides to fix volatile
salts as acids do. Il, however, salt of tartar be mixed
with the aforesaid water, the aeid saltos the lime will
combine most closely with it as being a more suitable
partner, and their strengths will be utterly destroyed
by each otherÍ¾ so that the limestone can now no
longer be dissolved by the destroyed acid of the lime,
but is precipitated to the bottom along with these
combined salts.

. And for the same reason the alkaline, or rather the
fiery volatile salt of the lime, will at once desert its
aeid partner to which it is united, in order to form a
closer union with the acid spirit of vitriol, which is
more suitable for it. For if sulphur be dissolved in
water in which lime has been slaked and spirit ol
vitriol be then added to the solution, the sulphur will

 

