On Mascular Molzon and Animal Spirits 241

not imagine how the extravasated blood could enter
the very minute mouths of the veins ; lor if the blood
were diffused through the mass ol the muscle it would
seem that the ultimate ramilications of the arteries
and veins would be compressed by the blood surround-
ing thern, so that the blood would not be able to enter

the mouths of the veios, as they would be closed by
that compression. Further, it is plain that the blood
is not extravasated in the muscles, because the blood
coming to a muscle does not all rush out if the muscle
is wounded, but this would happen if the blood were ex-
travasated and diffused through the mass of the rnuscle.

So that as to the transit ol the blood through the
muscles it is right that we should hold that the
capillary veins and arteries are united by vessels of
some different kind, so that there is a sort of con*
tinuous passage between them. For I think that the
extremities of the arteries terminate in peculiar
vessels, which, soon after their origin, divide into an
almost infinite number of canals, or rather mern-
branous vesicles, joined here and there by various
anastomoses; but that the various offshoots of these
vesicles, at last uniting into one canal, terminate in
the gaping mouths of the veins. So that, indeed,
while the mass of the blood wanders hither and
thither through these tortuous labyrinths, it simulates
extravasation. Further, it is probable that those
passages, or the collection of the said vesicles, exist
separately in each libre, for in vivisections aeut can
be made in the interstices ol the libres without any
flow ol blood, while blood at once flows out when a
fleshy fibro is even slightly wounded.

We may, then, conclude that that collection of
sanguiferous vesicles forms the chief part of muscular
flesh; for as to the ruddy solid part of the flesh, that

Q

 

