On S'al Nitmm and Nalm-Adrial Spirit 81

the air contains and by their collision drive them
forcibly out, and that at last from these, violently
ejected and in vehement commotiou‚ fire is produced,
as will be shown more fully below.

F urther‚ it isa reasonable supposition that the ae'rial
particles, deprived in the manner aforesaid oi nitro·
aerial particles, become not only unfit for sustain-
ing fire but also change from rigid to flexible and in
consequence are deprived os their elasticity, lor that
the rigidity of ae'rial particles is due to nitro-aerial
particles fixed in them, while their elasticity results
from their rigidity‚ I have already endeavoured to show.
indeed aerial particles when passing out from flame
appear to be in a condition very similar to that ol a
steel plate which is slowly cooled alter it has been
heated, for this also loses its elasticity as the fiery
particles extricare themselves from its structure, and
becomes moreover incapable of having, as before,
sparks struck out of it by flint. And in fact fire seems
to be nothing else than a collection os very minute
sparks very densely struck out from aerial particles by
the collision of sulphureous particles. For the case is
very much as il we were to suppose that innumerable
little particles of flint and steel collide at the same
instant with each other. For as aeria} particles are
solid bodies and are rigid like steel plates‚ they seem
to be lit enough for having fire struck out of them.
Hence if the sulphureous particles are too volatile and
fine the flame produced by them is very sluggish, such
as is the flame of burning spirit of wine or the very
feeble and almost harmless fireswhich are produced by
the sulphureous effluviae of animals‚ for since these
extremely fine and volatile sulphureous particles only
collide in a feeble and gentle manner with the aerial
particles, they are scarcely able to strike effectively

F

 

