vi Preface

was not possible to obtain a clear idea of Mayow's
scientific position without reading the whole of the
five treatises. We therefore now present to the
reader a translation of Mayow's Opera omnia. Our
rule has been to ,translate as literally as possible,
avoiding the use of any words or phrases which have,
since Mayow’s tirne, acquired a special scientific
meaning. This has led to the retention of expres-
sions not now familiar to scientific readers. Some of
these we may here note. Sulphur is often used for
what may be called the combustible principle, and
sulphureous matter almost always means combustible
matter, without any suggestion that it contains
sulphur in the sense we should mean il we used the
phrase now. There is no difficulty in seeing quite
clearly when Mayow uses the word sulphur in the
general and when in the special sense.

By “purely saline salt ” he means an alkali, fixed or
volatile, usually a carbonate; and “fixed salt ” means
potash or soda, usually as carbonate. It is scarcely
necessary to say that the nature of the difference
between the caustic and the mild alkalis was not
discovered till nearly a hundred years alter Mayow's
time.

We have confined ourselves to the work of transla-
tion and have added nothing in the way of commen-
tary or criticism3 but it may be well to remind the
reader that Hooke’s Micrographia had been published
shortly before Mayow wrote, and that most ol Boyle’s
treatises appeared shortly after.

The edition of Mayow's works printed at Oxlord

in 1674 has been used in the preparation of the
translation.

A. C. B.
L. D.

 

