On Respiratzbn 185

beyond doubt), it follows that the air, passed through

the nostrils and the trachea. up to the bronchia or
gates of the lungs, presses against the lungs from
within and seeks an entrance into them. Hence it is
that when the inner sides of the thorax (which by
compressing the lungs from without were resisting
the pressure of this air) are drawn outwards by
muscles whose function it is to dilate the chest, and
the space in the thorax is enlarged, the air which is
nearest the bronchial inlets, now that every obstacle
is removed, rushes under the full pressure of the
atmosphere into the cavities ol the lungs, and by
inflating them occupies and lills the space ol the
expanded chest.

The structure of the lungs is adapted for their
inflation as thus described, lor their substance is
conrposed, as the eminent Dr Malpighi has noted, of
very fine membranes, which form an almost infinite
number of spherical vesicles whose mutual connection
is such that there is easy access srom the trachea to
those nearest to it, and from these again to others
Consequently when these vesicles are inflated by an

inrush of air, the whole substance of the lungs must
necessarily expand.

Nor is it only the pressure of the atmosphere, but
also the elastic force of the air by which it tends to
expand indefinitely, that serves to inflate the lungs
and cause inspiration, as takes place when the air, on
the nostrils being closed, is drawn into the lungs (in
the manner already described) lrom a glass placed in
the mouth, and also when a small animal breatbes in
a glass that has been completely closed. For though
the weight ol the atmosphere does not, owing to the
interposition ol the glass, press or impel the air which
it contains, still the air, in virtue ol its elastic force,

 

