On Sal Nr'trum and Nr'tro-Ac'rial Spirit 2 5

shown above. But as the minutely divided saline
particles of the sulphur are very closely united to its
sulphureous particles, it happens in the deflagration
of sulphur (when the sulphureous and nitro-adria}
particles throw each other into fiery motion) that the
saline particles of the sulphur, adhering to its sul-
phureous particles, are by frequent impacts oi the
nitro-aerial particles struck, rubbed, and comminuted‚
so that the saline particles from being often rubbed
and pounded‚ are at last sharpened like small swords
and are moreover so attenuated as to be changed from
rigid and solid into flexible and fluid particles. The
saline particles of the sulphur in fact which were
previously of a fixed nature change, after they are '
thus sharpened and made fluid, into an acrid and aeid
liquid, and probably constitute the common spirit of
sulphur.

That the facts of the case are as stated may be
inferred froma careful study of the flame of sulphur
since it is very different from other flames. For
nitro-aerial particles do not shine ruddily and glow
in the flame of burning sulphur as in other cases, but
owing to their diminished motion appear blue, so that
‚it would appear that some third substance is interposed
between the nitro-aerial and sulphureous particles„
and that by it these fiery particles are hindered in
their motion. For as the nitro-aerial and fiery
particles, when in violent agitation‚ glow, so when

their motion is retarded they appear of ablue colour. η,

And this is the reason that the flame of an expiring
lamp iswont to be blue. But of this more else-

where.
It serves to confirm what has been said that the

flame of sulphur in consequence ol the somewhat
sluggish movement ol the fiery particles is less caustic

 

